Okay, the last thing I want to show for
error handling.
And I did put this on the slides because
actually it doesn't have anything to
really do with API specifically.
But has everything to do with node.
So I want to talk about it, which is,
we talked about handling
errors inside of express.
What if you have an error outside of
Express but in node, not in handler.
Well, it'll just break so you can try
catch it, if you just throw an error you
saw it throw an error at the top of
that file I ran a file it broke.
You can just try catch that but for an
asynchronous error that happens somewhere
later in your app that's not an express.
How do you handle that well,
you can get away with,
you can use something called process.
So it's a really good intuitive process
I'll make another file here called
error Jas.
I'm going to do a set timeout for like 300
milliseconds and I went through an error.
And I'm gonna say oops, okay?
Throw that error and
I'm just gonna run this file.
So let's see what happens.
Node, error JS,
on three miliseconds and then boom.
It says oops.
Okay.
We didn't handle the error
because a synchronous.
But what you can do is you can tell,
you can use this built in thing called
process that's built into node.
And if you don't have any experience with
operating system level environmental
languages like Node JS or Python.
Anything that you can run
in the terminal basically,
there's a thing called process right.
Process is an object,
at least in JavaScript that
represents this the current
process in which you're in.
The file system, the current file,
all the variables,
the secrets, every piece of metadata
associated with the process you are in.
The hardware you're on,
the capabilities of that hardware,
everything IP address, things like that.
So the process object and
node has a bunch of stuff on it.
I mean, if you just hit dot and
scroll through it.
Yeah, I'm still scrolling.
It's just like a infinite scroll.
So, you can do process dot on or
on hand or
process dot on then uncaught exception or
unhandled rejection.
So process that on is basically
an event handler so you can listen for
certain things.
Uncaught exception is like, there was an
error that was thrown that no one caught.
I can handle it here.
And then the same is true for
something asynchronous,
I can say for uncaught rejection.
Which is like an asynchronous
error is happening and
I promise I can handle it here as well.
So if something breaks,
sometimes you'll see an error.
And note I'm like,
this errored it out unhandled rejection.
I don't know what the error is.
I just know that it did error because it's
asynchronous, I don't know what it is,
but it broke.
You would put this in your
app somewhere to catch it.
Like at the top of your index file or
something like that,
just to register this.
And this has nothing to do with Express.
This is just catching stuff and node.